[CIAPP-2213] Update testing and CI provider instructions (#11002)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/gitlab.md

      text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

> ## Compatibility

Reviewer: There's a note in this page that says:

> Note: Only datadoghq.com is currently supported.

2 things:

1. Maybe it would be better to move that note to the Compatibility section?
2. Is that really a limitation? The JUnit uploader doc says everything is supported (`Possible values: datadoghq.com, datadoghq.eu or us3.datadoghq.com`)

Author: Because we are not deployed anywhere other than us1, we should really remove all mentions to this until we do support something else, and then only document the ones that we support

Supported GitLab versions:
* GitLab >= 14.1

We also support the following versions with additional configuration:
* GitLab >= 13.7.0, by enabling the `datadog_ci_integration` feature flag

GitLab versions prior to 13.7.0 are supported using the [webhooks integration](#integrating-through-webhooks).

## Enabling the Datadog integration

> To enable traces for your GitLab CI pipelines a [native integration][1] is available and hidden under a [feature flag][2] since release `13.7.0`.

Reviewer: Any reason the "native integration" link doesn't take you to the Datadog specific page (https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/datadog.html) vs the general one (https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/)?

Reviewer: More feedback, which doesn't relate to this PR specifically but I think is valuable either way:

This page mentions that the integration needs to be enabled per project. The GitLab page for the Datadog integration says it can be enabled per project or globally, but there aren't any instruction anywhere on how to enable it globally:

> You can also activate the integration for the entire GitLab instance.

Maybe it is obvious from the GitLab UI (I haven't used it), but it might be worth mentioning how.

Author: I refactored a bit the instructions, because they were out of date. I added how to enable it at the instance level as well. Please have another look.

  -e production \
  "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

For [Kubernetes deployments][5]:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
kubectl exec -it <task-runner-pod-name> -- \
  /srv/gitlab/bin/rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

## Configuring the Datadog integration

Configure the integration on a per project or group basis by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument. You can also activate the integration at the GitLab [instance level][10] by going to **Admin > Settings > Integrations > Datadog**, which will be applied to all existing and future projects.

Fill in the integration configuration settings:

* **Active** enables the integration.
* **Datadog site** specifies which [Datadog site][11] to send data to. Please note that only `datadoghq.com` is currently supported.
* **API URL** (optional) allows overriding the API URL used for sending data directly, only used in advanced scenarios.
* **API key** specifies which API key to use when sending data. You can generate one in the [APIs tab][6] of the Integrations section on Datadog.

> * **Service** (optional) specifies which service name to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between GitLab instances.

Reviewer 2: Do we remove "Defaults to `gitlab-ci`"?

* **Env** (optional) specifies which environment (`env` tag) to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between groups of GitLab instances (i.e. staging vs production).

> You can test the integration with the **Test settings** button. After it’s successful, click **Save changes** to finish the integration set up.

Reviewer 2: The Test button is only available at project-level config. Maybe we should reflect that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test the integration with the **Test settings** button. After it's successful, click **Save changes** to finish the integration set up.
```
